docs/configuration/version.md, before:

# Version creation

`axion-release-plugin` comes with rich set of features for version
parsing and decorating. Extracting version information from repository
can be split in six phases:

-   reading - read tags from repository
-   parsing - extracting version from tag (serializing version to tag)
-   incrementing - when not on tag, version patch (leas significant)
    number is incremented
-   decorating - adding additional transformations to create final
    version
-   appending snapshot - when not on tag, SNAPSHOT suffix is appended
-   sanitization - making sure there are no unwanted characters in
    version

## Reading

Version is kept in repository in form of a tag:

    # git tag
    release-1.0.0 release-1.0.1 release-1.1.0

Only tags which math predefined prefix are taken into a count when
calculating current version. Prefix can be set using
`scmVersion.tag.prefix` property:

    scmVersion {
        tag {
            prefix = 'my-prefix'
        }
    }

Default prefix is `release`.

There is also an option to set prefix per-branch (i.e. to use different
version prefix on `legacy-` branches):

    scmVersion {
        tag {
            prefix = 'default-prefix'
            branchPrefix = [
                'legacy.*' : 'legacy-prefix'
            ]
        }
    }

Git implementation of a repository interface can operate in two modes
when searching for tag to read the version from.

### First tag encountered

**This is the default mode**

In default mode, search for tag starts from current commit and goes up
the commit tree until first tag with matching prefix is encountered.
This tag is returned as current position in repository (along with
current branch) and commit number.

Tree walking algorithm might lead to various misunderstandings. Take
this tree as an example:

```
   [T1]
    |
 |      |
[_]   [T2]
 |      |
[C]    [_]
```

Let `T*` be a tagged commit and `C` current commit. After releasing
version with tag `T1`, we have been working on two separate branches.
Then, branch on the right has been released and marked with `T2` tag.
When traversing this tree from commit `C` upwards, first discovered tag
will be `T1` and so reported version will come from parsing `T1` tag,
even though tag `T2` has higher version number. It all comes down to
what is the history of current commit, not what has happened in
repository in general.

### Tag with highest version

Second mode is searching for highest version visible in the git tree's
history. This means that all commits from HEAD till first commit will be
analysed.

In order to activate this feature:

    scmVersion {
        useHighestVersion = true
    }

With a tree similar to this:

    Tag: 1.0.0
    Tag: 1.5.0
    Tag: 1.2.0

This changes behavior from:

    # ./gradlew currentVersion
    1.2.0

to:

    # ./gradlew currentVersion
    1.5.0

You can also active this option using command line:

    # ./gradlew currentVersion -Prelease.useHighestVersion
    1.5.0

## Parsing

Having current tag name, we can deserialize it to extract raw version.
Actually, this has to be a two-way process, since on reading version we
deserialize and serialize on creating new tag to mark new release.

### Deserialization

Default deserialization function is a simple closure that strips tag
name off prefix and separator between prefix and version. It ignores
separator when prefix is an empty string:

    deserialize(prefix: 'release', separator: '-', tag: 'release-1.0.0') == 1.0.0
    deserialize(prefix: '', separator: '-', tag: '1.0.0') == 1.0.0

You can implement own deserializer by setting closure that would accept
deserialization config object and position in SCM:

    scmVersion {
        tag {
            deserialize = {config, position, tagName -> ...}
        }
    }

`config` object is instance of `TagNameSerializationRules` class. Useful
properties are:

-   `prefix`: tag prefix
-   `separator`: separator between prefix and version

`position` object contains:

-   `branch` - the name of the current branch

Last but not least, `tagName` contains prepared tag name that should be
used to extract version. `position.latestTag` might point to next
version tag with additional suffix.

### Serialization

Default serializer prepends prefix and separator to version number.
Separator is ignored if prefix is an empty string:

    serialize(prefix: 'release', separator: '-', version: '1.0.0') == release-1.0.0
    serialize(prefix: '', separator: '-', version: '1.0.0') == 1.0.0

You can implement own serializer by setting closure that would accept
serialization config object and version:

    scmVersion {
        tag {
            serialize = {config, version -> ...}
        }
    }

`config` object has been described above.

### Initial version

When starting work on new project there are no tags available and so
there is no way to deserialize version. By default `0.1.0` version is
returned, but you can override that behavior by specifying own closure
that will construct initial version:

    scmVersion {
        tag {
            initialVersion = {config, position -> ...}
        }
    }

Input objects have same structure as deserialization closure inputs.

## Incrementing

Incrementing phase does incrementing the version in accordance with
*version incrementer*. By default version patch (least significant)
number is incremented. There are other predefined rules:

-   *incrementPatch* - increment patch number
-   *incrementMinor* - increment minor (middle) number
-   *incrementMajor* - increment major number
-   *incrementMinorIfNotOnRelease* - increment patch number if on
    release branch. Increment minor otherwise
-   *incrementPrerelease* - increment pre-release suffix if possible
    (-rc1 to -rc2). Increment patch otherwise

You can set one of predefined rules via `scmVersion.versionIncrementer`
method:

    scmVersion {
        versionIncrementer 'incrementPatch'
    }

Or via `release.versionIncrementer` command line argument, which
overrides any other incrementer settings:

    ./gradlew release -Prelease.versionIncrementer=incrementMajor

If rule accepts parameters, they can be passed via configuration map:

    scmVersion {
        versionIncrementer 'someIncrementer', [:]
    }

Alternatively you can specify a custom rule by setting a closure that
would accept a context object and return a `Version` object:

    scmVersion {
        versionIncrementer { context -> ... }
    }

The context object passed to closure contains the following:

-   *currentVersion* - current `Version` object that should be used to
    calculate next version ([Version
    API](https://github.com/zafarkhaja/jsemver/blob/1f4996ea3dab06193c378fd66fd4f8fdc8334cc6/src/main/java/com/github/zafarkhaja/semver/Version.java))
-   *position* - widely used position object, for more see [ScmPosition](https://github.com/allegro/axion-release-plugin/blob/master/src/main/groovy/pl/allegro/tech/build/axion/release/domain/scm/ScmPosition.groovy)

You can also specify different incrementers per branch. They can be
either closure, name of predefined incrementer or name and list of
arguments in case predefined incrementer requires configuration:

    scmVersion {
        branchVersionIncrementer = [
            'feature/.*' : 'incrementMinor',
            'bugfix/.*' : { c -> c.currentVersion.incrementPatchVersion() },
            'legacy/.*' : [ 'incrementMinorIfNotOnRelease', [releaseBranchPattern: 'legacy/release.*'] ]
        ]
    }

If none matches current branch, incrementer set in `versionIncrementer`
field is used.

### incrementMinorIfNotOnRelease

This rule uses additional parameter `releaseBranchPattern` (by default
it's set to `release/.+`):

    scmVersion {
        versionIncrementer 'incrementMinorIfNotOnRelease', [releaseBranchPattern: 'release.*']
    }

## Decorating

Decorating phase happens only when version is read (and deserialized).
During this phase version can be decorated with i.e. branch name.
Default decorator does nothing. `axion-release-plugin` supports adding
predefined named version creators (so don't be afraid to post pull
request if you have something useful!). Decoration phase is conducted by
*version creators*, you can configure it via `scmVersion.versionCreator`
method:

    scmVersion {
        versionCreator 'versionWithBranch'
    }

Or via `release.versionCreator` command line argument, which overrides
any other versionCreator settings:

    ./gradlew release -Prelease.versionCreator=simple

You can also set decorators per branches that match specific regular
expression:

    scmVersion {
        branchVersionCreator = [
            'feature/.*': { version, position -> ...},
            'bugfix/.*': 'simple'
        ]
    }

Per-branch version creators must be closures, there is no support for
predefined creators. First match wins, but the order depends on
collection type used (default for `[:]` is LinkedHashMap).

#### simple

This is the default version creator that does nothing:

    decorate(version: '0.1.0') == 0.1.0

It might be useful when you want some branches to do *nothing*:

    scmVersion {
        branchVersionCreator = [
            'feature/.*': { version, position -> ...},
            'release/.*': 'simple'
        ]
    }

#### versionWithBranch

    scmVersion {
        versionCreator 'versionWithBranch'
    }

This version creator appends branch name to version unless you are on
*master* or *detached HEAD*:

    decorate(version: '0.1.0', branch: 'master') == 0.1.0
    decorate(version: '0.1.0', branch: 'my-special-branch') == 0.1.0-my-special-branch

### Custom version creator

Custom version creators can be implemented by creating closure:

    {version, position -> ...}

-   version - string version resolved by previous steps
-   position - [ScmPosition](https://github.com/allegro/axion-release-plugin/blob/master/src/main/groovy/pl/allegro/tech/build/axion/release/domain/scm/ScmPosition.groovy) object

## Sanitization

After decorating versions, there might be some characters left in
version that are not i.e. filename friendly. That's why last phase of
version creation is sanitizing version string. By all characters that do
not match `[A-Za-z0-9._-]` group are replaced with -. For example:

    sanitize('0.1.0-feature/myfeatureBranch-SNAPSHOT') == '0.1.0-feature-my-feature-branch-SNAPSHOT'

You can switch off version sanitization via `scmVersion.sanitizeVersion`
property:

    scmVersion {
        sanitizeVersion = false
    }

Commit message:

[issue #286] initialPreReleaseIfNotOnPrerelease to create rc version, old behavior when absent

docs/configuration/version.md, after:

# Version creation

`axion-release-plugin` comes with rich set of features for version
parsing and decorating. Extracting version information from repository
can be split in six phases:

-   reading - read tags from repository
-   parsing - extracting version from tag (serializing version to tag)
-   incrementing - when not on tag, version patch (leas significant)
    number is incremented
-   decorating - adding additional transformations to create final
    version
-   appending snapshot - when not on tag, SNAPSHOT suffix is appended
-   sanitization - making sure there are no unwanted characters in
    version

## Reading

Version is kept in repository in form of a tag:

    # git tag
    release-1.0.0 release-1.0.1 release-1.1.0

Only tags which math predefined prefix are taken into a count when
calculating current version. Prefix can be set using
`scmVersion.tag.prefix` property:

    scmVersion {
        tag {
            prefix = 'my-prefix'
        }
    }

Default prefix is `release`.

There is also an option to set prefix per-branch (i.e. to use different
version prefix on `legacy-` branches):

    scmVersion {
        tag {
            prefix = 'default-prefix'
            branchPrefix = [
                'legacy.*' : 'legacy-prefix'
            ]
        }
    }

Git implementation of a repository interface can operate in two modes
when searching for tag to read the version from.

### First tag encountered

**This is the default mode**

In default mode, search for tag starts from current commit and goes up
the commit tree until first tag with matching prefix is encountered.
This tag is returned as current position in repository (along with
current branch) and commit number.

Tree walking algorithm might lead to various misunderstandings. Take
this tree as an example:

```
   [T1]
    |
 |      |
[_]   [T2]
 |      |
[C]    [_]
```

Let `T*` be a tagged commit and `C` current commit. After releasing
version with tag `T1`, we have been working on two separate branches.
Then, branch on the right has been released and marked with `T2` tag.
When traversing this tree from commit `C` upwards, first discovered tag
will be `T1` and so reported version will come from parsing `T1` tag,
even though tag `T2` has higher version number. It all comes down to
what is the history of current commit, not what has happened in
repository in general.

### Tag with highest version

Second mode is searching for highest version visible in the git tree's
history. This means that all commits from HEAD till first commit will be
analysed.

In order to activate this feature:

    scmVersion {
        useHighestVersion = true
    }

With a tree similar to this:

    Tag: 1.0.0
    Tag: 1.5.0
    Tag: 1.2.0

This changes behavior from:

    # ./gradlew currentVersion
    1.2.0

to:

    # ./gradlew currentVersion
    1.5.0

You can also active this option using command line:

    # ./gradlew currentVersion -Prelease.useHighestVersion
    1.5.0

## Parsing

Having current tag name, we can deserialize it to extract raw version.
Actually, this has to be a two-way process, since on reading version we
deserialize and serialize on creating new tag to mark new release.

### Deserialization

Default deserialization function is a simple closure that strips tag
name off prefix and separator between prefix and version. It ignores
separator when prefix is an empty string:

    deserialize(prefix: 'release', separator: '-', tag: 'release-1.0.0') == 1.0.0
    deserialize(prefix: '', separator: '-', tag: '1.0.0') == 1.0.0

You can implement own deserializer by setting closure that would accept
deserialization config object and position in SCM:

    scmVersion {
        tag {
            deserialize = {config, position, tagName -> ...}
        }
    }

`config` object is instance of `TagNameSerializationRules` class. Useful
properties are:

-   `prefix`: tag prefix
-   `separator`: separator between prefix and version

`position` object contains:

-   `branch` - the name of the current branch

Last but not least, `tagName` contains prepared tag name that should be
used to extract version. `position.latestTag` might point to next
version tag with additional suffix.

### Serialization

Default serializer prepends prefix and separator to version number.
Separator is ignored if prefix is an empty string:

    serialize(prefix: 'release', separator: '-', version: '1.0.0') == release-1.0.0
    serialize(prefix: '', separator: '-', version: '1.0.0') == 1.0.0

You can implement own serializer by setting closure that would accept
serialization config object and version:

    scmVersion {
        tag {
            serialize = {config, version -> ...}
        }
    }

`config` object has been described above.

### Initial version

When starting work on new project there are no tags available and so
there is no way to deserialize version. By default `0.1.0` version is
returned, but you can override that behavior by specifying own closure
that will construct initial version:

    scmVersion {
        tag {
            initialVersion = {config, position -> ...}
        }
    }

Input objects have same structure as deserialization closure inputs.

## Incrementing

Incrementing phase does incrementing the version in accordance with
*version incrementer*. By default version patch (least significant)
number is incremented. There are other predefined rules:

-   *incrementPatch* - increment patch number
-   *incrementMinor* - increment minor (middle) number
-   *incrementMajor* - increment major number
-   *incrementMinorIfNotOnRelease* - increment patch number if on
    release branch. Increment minor otherwise
-   *incrementPrerelease* - increment pre-release suffix if possible
    (-rc1 to -rc2). Add `initialPreReleaseIfNotOnPrerelease` to increment patch with prerelase version. Increment patch otherwise

You can set one of predefined rules via `scmVersion.versionIncrementer`
method:

    scmVersion {
        versionIncrementer 'incrementPatch'
    }

Or via `release.versionIncrementer` command line argument, which
overrides any other incrementer settings:

    ./gradlew release -Prelease.versionIncrementer=incrementMajor

If rule accepts parameters, they can be passed via configuration map:

    scmVersion {
        versionIncrementer 'someIncrementer', [:]
    }

Alternatively you can specify a custom rule by setting a closure that
would accept a context object and return a `Version` object:

    scmVersion {
        versionIncrementer { context -> ... }
    }

The context object passed to closure contains the following:

-   *currentVersion* - current `Version` object that should be used to
    calculate next version ([Version
    API](https://github.com/zafarkhaja/jsemver/blob/1f4996ea3dab06193c378fd66fd4f8fdc8334cc6/src/main/java/com/github/zafarkhaja/semver/Version.java))
-   *position* - widely used position object, for more see [ScmPosition](https://github.com/allegro/axion-release-plugin/blob/master/src/main/groovy/pl/allegro/tech/build/axion/release/domain/scm/ScmPosition.groovy)

You can also specify different incrementers per branch. They can be
either closure, name of predefined incrementer or name and list of
arguments in case predefined incrementer requires configuration:

    scmVersion {
        branchVersionIncrementer = [
            'feature/.*' : 'incrementMinor',
            'bugfix/.*' : { c -> c.currentVersion.incrementPatchVersion() },
            'legacy/.*' : [ 'incrementMinorIfNotOnRelease', [releaseBranchPattern: 'legacy/release.*'] ]
        ]
    }

If none matches current branch, incrementer set in `versionIncrementer`
field is used.

### incrementMinorIfNotOnRelease

This rule uses additional parameter `releaseBranchPattern` (by default
it's set to `release/.+`):

    scmVersion {
        versionIncrementer 'incrementMinorIfNotOnRelease', [releaseBranchPattern: 'release.*']
    }

### incrementPrerelease

This rule uses additional parameter `initialPreReleaseIfNotOnPrerelease` (by default
it's empty):

    scmVersion {
        versionIncrementer 'incrementPrerelease', [initialPreReleaseIfNotOnPrerelease: 'rc1']
    }

## Decorating

Decorating phase happens only when version is read (and deserialized).
During this phase version can be decorated with i.e. branch name.
Default decorator does nothing. `axion-release-plugin` supports adding
predefined named version creators (so don't be afraid to post pull
request if you have something useful!). Decoration phase is conducted by
*version creators*, you can configure it via `scmVersion.versionCreator`
method:

    scmVersion {
        versionCreator 'versionWithBranch'
    }

Or via `release.versionCreator` command line argument, which overrides
any other versionCreator settings:

    ./gradlew release -Prelease.versionCreator=simple

You can also set decorators per branches that match specific regular
expression:

    scmVersion {
        branchVersionCreator = [
            'feature/.*': { version, position -> ...},
            'bugfix/.*': 'simple'
        ]
    }

Per-branch version creators must be closures, there is no support for
predefined creators. First match wins, but the order depends on
collection type used (default for `[:]` is LinkedHashMap).

#### simple

This is the default version creator that does nothing:

    decorate(version: '0.1.0') == 0.1.0

It might be useful when you want some branches to do *nothing*:

    scmVersion {
        branchVersionCreator = [
            'feature/.*': { version, position -> ...},
            'release/.*': 'simple'
        ]
    }

#### versionWithBranch

    scmVersion {
        versionCreator 'versionWithBranch'
    }

This version creator appends branch name to version unless you are on
*master* or *detached HEAD*:

    decorate(version: '0.1.0', branch: 'master') == 0.1.0
    decorate(version: '0.1.0', branch: 'my-special-branch') == 0.1.0-my-special-branch

### Custom version creator

Custom version creators can be implemented by creating closure:

    {version, position -> ...}

-   version - string version resolved by previous steps
-   position - [ScmPosition](https://github.com/allegro/axion-release-plugin/blob/master/src/main/groovy/pl/allegro/tech/build/axion/release/domain/scm/ScmPosition.groovy) object

## Sanitization

After decorating versions, there might be some characters left in
version that are not i.e. filename friendly. That's why last phase of
version creation is sanitizing version string. By all characters that do
not match `[A-Za-z0-9._-]` group are replaced with -. For example:

    sanitize('0.1.0-feature/myfeatureBranch-SNAPSHOT') == '0.1.0-feature-my-feature-branch-SNAPSHOT'

You can switch off version sanitization via `scmVersion.sanitizeVersion`
property:

    scmVersion {
        sanitizeVersion = false
    }
